IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md, before:

# Implementing Blog Enhancements for Hashnode

This guide outlines how to implement the suggested blog enhancements for your Hashnode blog.

## 1. Enhanced Cover Images

To implement responsive, attractive cover images with gradient overlays:

1. Include the CoverImage CSS styles from `components/custom-styles.css` in your Hashnode custom CSS
2. Add the following JavaScript to your Hashnode Custom JavaScript section:

```javascript
// Cover Image Enhancement
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
  // Select all blog post cover images
  const coverImages = document.querySelectorAll('.blog-post-card-cover, .blog-post-cover-image');
  
  coverImages.forEach(img => {
    // Get the original image source
    const src = img.getAttribute('src');
    const alt = img.getAttribute('alt') || 'Cover image';
    
    // Create wrapper and container
    const wrapper = document.createElement('div');
    wrapper.className = 'cover-image-wrapper';
    
    // Create gradient overlay
    const overlay = document.createElement('div');
    overlay.className = 'cover-gradient-overlay';
    
    // Replace the original image with our enhanced structure
    const parent = img.parentNode;
    const container = document.createElement('div');
    container.className = 'cover-image-container';
    
    // Move the image into our new structure
    wrapper.appendChild(img);
    wrapper.appendChild(overlay);
    container.appendChild(wrapper);
    
    // Replace the original image with our container
    parent.appendChild(container);
  });
});
```

3. For blog post pages, you can also add a title overlay to the cover image by adding this code:

```javascript
// Add title overlay to cover images
const postTitle = document.querySelector('.blog-post-title');
if (postTitle && document.querySelector('.cover-image-wrapper')) {
  const titleOverlay = document.createElement('div');
  titleOverlay.className = 'cover-title-container';
  titleOverlay.innerHTML = `<h1 class="cover-title">${postTitle.textContent}</h1>`;
  document.querySelector('.cover-image-wrapper').appendChild(titleOverlay);
  
  // Optionally hide the original title
  // postTitle.style.display = 'none';
}
```

## 2. Setting up Custom CSS

Hashnode allows you to add custom CSS to your blog. Follow these steps:

1. Go to your Hashnode Dashboard
2. Navigate to "Blog Settings" > "Appearance" > "Custom CSS"
3. Copy the contents from the `components/custom-styles.css` file
4. Paste it into the Custom CSS section of your Hashnode dashboard
5. Click "Save" to apply the changes

## 2. Adding Dark Mode Toggle

Hashnode doesn't allow direct addition of React components, but you can implement a dark mode toggle using custom JavaScript:

1. Go to your Hashnode Dashboard
2. Navigate to "Blog Settings" > "Appearance" > "Custom JavaScript"
3. Add the following code:

```javascript
// Dark mode toggle implementation
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
  // Create toggle button
  const toggleButton = document.createElement('button');
  toggleButton.setAttribute('aria-label', 'Toggle dark mode');
  toggleButton.classList.add('dark-mode-toggle');
  
  // Check initial state
  const isDarkMode = localStorage.theme === 'dark' || 
    (!('theme' in localStorage) && window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches);
  
  if (isDarkMode) {
    document.documentElement.classList.add('dark');
  }
  
  // Set initial icon
  toggleButton.innerHTML = isDarkMode 
    ? '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M12 3v2.25m6.364.386l-1.591 1.591M21 12h-2.25m-.386 6.364l-1.591-1.591M12 18.75V21m-4.773-4.227l-1.591 1.591M5.25 12H3m4.227-4.773L5.636 5.636M15.75 12a3.75 3.75 0 11-7.5 0 3.75 3.75 0 017.5 0z" /></svg>' 
    : '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M21.752 15.002A9.718 9.718 0 0118 15.75c-5.385 0-9.75-4.365-9.75-9.75 0-1.33.266-2.597.748-3.752A9.753 9.753 0 003 11.25C3 16.635 7.365 21 12.75 21a9.753 9.753 0 009.002-5.998z" /></svg>';
  
  // Add click event
  toggleButton.addEventListener('click', function() {
    if (document.documentElement.classList.contains('dark')) {
      document.documentElement.classList.remove('dark');
      localStorage.theme = 'light';
      toggleButton.innerHTML = '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M21.752 15.002A9.718 9.718 0 0118 15.75c-5.385 0-9.75-4.365-9.75-9.75 0-1.33.266-2.597.748-3.752A9.753 9.753 0 003 11.25C3 16.635 7.365 21 12.75 21a9.753 9.753 0 009.002-5.998z" /></svg>';
    } else {
      document.documentElement.classList.add('dark');
      localStorage.theme = 'dark';
      toggleButton.innerHTML = '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M12 3v2.25m6.364.386l-1.591 1.591M21 12h-2.25m-.386 6.364l-1.591-1.591M12 18.75V21m-4.773-4.227l-1.591 1.591M5.25 12H3m4.227-4.773L5.636 5.636M15.75 12a3.75 3.75 0 11-7.5 0 3.75 3.75 0 017.5 0z" /></svg>';
    }
  });
  
  // Add styles for the toggle button
  const style = document.createElement('style');
  style.textContent = `
    .dark-mode-toggle {
      background: transparent;
      border: none;
      cursor: pointer;
      padding: 8px;
      border-radius: 8px;
      display: flex;
      align-items: center;
      justify-content: center;
      color: inherit;
      position: fixed;
      top: 20px;
      right: 20px;
      z-index: 1000;
      background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.8);
      box-shadow: 0 2px 5px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    }
    
    html.dark .dark-mode-toggle {
      background-color: rgba(30, 30, 30, 0.8);
    }
    
    .dark-mode-toggle:hover {
      background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05);
    }
    
    html.dark .dark-mode-toggle:hover {
      background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
    }
  `;
  document.head.appendChild(style);
  
  // Add button to the page
  document.body.appendChild(toggleButton);
});
```

## 3. Adding Reading Time Estimation

1. For each blog post, calculate reading time manually:
   - Count words in your post (approximately)
   - Divide by 200 (average reading speed)
   - Round up to nearest minute

2. Add reading time to your post's frontmatter or at the beginning of your post:
```
---
title: "Your Post Title"
// ...other frontmatter
---

**Reading time: X min** • Published on [date]
```

## 4. Setting up Giscus Comments

1. Set up Giscus for your repository:
   - Go to https://giscus.app/
   - Enter your repository name (e.g., arnabdey73/blog)
   - Follow the setup instructions
   - Get your repo ID and category ID

2. Add the Giscus script at the end of your blog posts:
```html
<div id="comments">
  <h2>Comments</h2>
  <script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
    data-repo="arnabdey73/blog"
    data-repo-id="YOUR_REPO_ID"
    data-category="General"
    data-category-id="YOUR_CATEGORY_ID"
    data-mapping="pathname"
    data-reactions-enabled="1"
    data-emit-metadata="0"
    data-theme="light"
    data-lang="en"
    crossorigin="anonymous"
    async>
  </script>
</div>
```

## 5. Adding Newsletter Signup

1. Sign up for a newsletter service (Buttondown, Substack, ConvertKit, etc.)
2. Get your signup form embed code
3. Add it to the end of your posts or create a dedicated widget

Example manual HTML to add at the end of posts:
```html
<div class="newsletter-signup">
  <h3>Subscribe to my newsletter</h3>
  <p>Get new posts delivered right to your inbox</p>
  <!-- Replace with your actual newsletter form embed code -->
  <form action="https://your-newsletter-service.com/subscribe" method="post">
    <input type="email" name="email" placeholder="email@example.com" required class="newsletter-input">
    <button type="submit" class="newsletter-button">Subscribe</button>
  </form>
</div>
```

## 6. Adding RSS Feed

Hashnode automatically generates RSS feeds for your blog. Your RSS feed URL is:
```
https://[your-domain].hashnode.dev/rss.xml
```

You can link to this from your blog navigation for readers to easily subscribe.

## 7. SEO Improvements

Hashnode handles most basic SEO automatically, but you can enhance it:

1. For each post, make sure to fill out:
   - SEO title (seoTitle)
   - SEO description (seoDescription)
   - Cover image (cover)
   - OG image (ogImage)
   - Tags (relevant to your content)

2. Make sure your meta description is compelling and between 120-155 characters.

3. Use descriptive, keyword-rich headings (H2, H3) throughout your posts.

## Additional Tips

1. For syntax highlighting, Hashnode already supports it - just use the proper markdown code blocks with language specified:

```javascript
// Your code here
```

2. For better post previews on your homepage, make sure to:
   - Use compelling cover images
   - Write engaging intro paragraphs
   - Keep titles concise but descriptive

Commit message:

feat: Add full-width hero banner implementation for Hashnode blog
- Updated CHECKLIST.md to include full-width hero banner tasks
- Created HERO_BANNER_GUIDE.md for detailed implementation instructions
- Added HERO_BANNER_SUMMARY.md to summarize new features and files
- Modified IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md to include hero banner setup steps
- Updated README.md to document new components and files related to hero banners
- Created apply-hero-banner.sh script for applying hero banner enhancements
- Added BlogWithHero.jsx and HeroBanner.jsx components for hero banner usage
- Created hero-banner.css for styling the hero banner component
- Added example-hero-banner-post.md to demonstrate hero banner usage in a blog post
- Implemented hashnode-hero-banner.js for automatic hero banner enhancement
- Created hero-banner-demo.html to showcase the hero banner functionality

IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md, after:

# Implementing Blog Enhancements for Hashnode

This guide outlines how to implement the suggested blog enhancements for your Hashnode blog.

## 1. Full-Width Hero Banner (NEW!)

To implement stunning full-width hero banners that stretch across the entire width:

1. Include the Hero Banner CSS from `components/hero-banner.css` in your Hashnode custom CSS
2. Add the Hero Banner JavaScript from `hashnode-hero-banner.js` to your Hashnode Custom JavaScript section
3. Use the hero banner in your blog posts with:

```html
<div class="hashnode-hero-banner" 
     data-image-url="https://example.com/your-image.jpg" 
     data-alt="Your hero image alt text" 
     data-title="Your Post Title" 
     data-subtitle="May 26, 2023 • 5 min read">
</div>
```

For detailed instructions, see [HERO_BANNER_GUIDE.md](/HERO_BANNER_GUIDE.md)

## 2. Enhanced Cover Images

To implement responsive, attractive cover images with gradient overlays:

1. Include the CoverImage CSS styles from `components/custom-styles.css` in your Hashnode custom CSS
2. Add the following JavaScript to your Hashnode Custom JavaScript section:

```javascript
// Cover Image Enhancement
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
  // Select all blog post cover images
  const coverImages = document.querySelectorAll('.blog-post-card-cover, .blog-post-cover-image');
  
  coverImages.forEach(img => {
    // Get the original image source
    const src = img.getAttribute('src');
    const alt = img.getAttribute('alt') || 'Cover image';
    
    // Create wrapper and container
    const wrapper = document.createElement('div');
    wrapper.className = 'cover-image-wrapper';
    
    // Create gradient overlay
    const overlay = document.createElement('div');
    overlay.className = 'cover-gradient-overlay';
    
    // Replace the original image with our enhanced structure
    const parent = img.parentNode;
    const container = document.createElement('div');
    container.className = 'cover-image-container';
    
    // Move the image into our new structure
    wrapper.appendChild(img);
    wrapper.appendChild(overlay);
    container.appendChild(wrapper);
    
    // Replace the original image with our container
    parent.appendChild(container);
  });
});
```

3. For blog post pages, you can also add a title overlay to the cover image by adding this code:

```javascript
// Add title overlay to cover images
const postTitle = document.querySelector('.blog-post-title');
if (postTitle && document.querySelector('.cover-image-wrapper')) {
  const titleOverlay = document.createElement('div');
  titleOverlay.className = 'cover-title-container';
  titleOverlay.innerHTML = `<h1 class="cover-title">${postTitle.textContent}</h1>`;
  document.querySelector('.cover-image-wrapper').appendChild(titleOverlay);
  
  // Optionally hide the original title
  // postTitle.style.display = 'none';
}
```

## 2. Setting up Custom CSS

Hashnode allows you to add custom CSS to your blog. Follow these steps:

1. Go to your Hashnode Dashboard
2. Navigate to "Blog Settings" > "Appearance" > "Custom CSS"
3. Copy the contents from the `components/custom-styles.css` file
4. Paste it into the Custom CSS section of your Hashnode dashboard
5. Click "Save" to apply the changes

## 2. Adding Dark Mode Toggle

Hashnode doesn't allow direct addition of React components, but you can implement a dark mode toggle using custom JavaScript:

1. Go to your Hashnode Dashboard
2. Navigate to "Blog Settings" > "Appearance" > "Custom JavaScript"
3. Add the following code:

```javascript
// Dark mode toggle implementation
document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
  // Create toggle button
  const toggleButton = document.createElement('button');
  toggleButton.setAttribute('aria-label', 'Toggle dark mode');
  toggleButton.classList.add('dark-mode-toggle');
  
  // Check initial state
  const isDarkMode = localStorage.theme === 'dark' || 
    (!('theme' in localStorage) && window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches);
  
  if (isDarkMode) {
    document.documentElement.classList.add('dark');
  }
  
  // Set initial icon
  toggleButton.innerHTML = isDarkMode 
    ? '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M12 3v2.25m6.364.386l-1.591 1.591M21 12h-2.25m-.386 6.364l-1.591-1.591M12 18.75V21m-4.773-4.227l-1.591 1.591M5.25 12H3m4.227-4.773L5.636 5.636M15.75 12a3.75 3.75 0 11-7.5 0 3.75 3.75 0 017.5 0z" /></svg>' 
    : '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M21.752 15.002A9.718 9.718 0 0118 15.75c-5.385 0-9.75-4.365-9.75-9.75 0-1.33.266-2.597.748-3.752A9.753 9.753 0 003 11.25C3 16.635 7.365 21 12.75 21a9.753 9.753 0 009.002-5.998z" /></svg>';
  
  // Add click event
  toggleButton.addEventListener('click', function() {
    if (document.documentElement.classList.contains('dark')) {
      document.documentElement.classList.remove('dark');
      localStorage.theme = 'light';
      toggleButton.innerHTML = '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M21.752 15.002A9.718 9.718 0 0118 15.75c-5.385 0-9.75-4.365-9.75-9.75 0-1.33.266-2.597.748-3.752A9.753 9.753 0 003 11.25C3 16.635 7.365 21 12.75 21a9.753 9.753 0 009.002-5.998z" /></svg>';
    } else {
      document.documentElement.classList.add('dark');
      localStorage.theme = 'dark';
      toggleButton.innerHTML = '<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" fill="none" viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke-width="1.5" stroke="currentColor" width="20" height="20"><path stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" d="M12 3v2.25m6.364.386l-1.591 1.591M21 12h-2.25m-.386 6.364l-1.591-1.591M12 18.75V21m-4.773-4.227l-1.591 1.591M5.25 12H3m4.227-4.773L5.636 5.636M15.75 12a3.75 3.75 0 11-7.5 0 3.75 3.75 0 017.5 0z" /></svg>';
    }
  });
  
  // Add styles for the toggle button
  const style = document.createElement('style');
  style.textContent = `
    .dark-mode-toggle {
      background: transparent;
      border: none;
      cursor: pointer;
      padding: 8px;
      border-radius: 8px;
      display: flex;
      align-items: center;
      justify-content: center;
      color: inherit;
      position: fixed;
      top: 20px;
      right: 20px;
      z-index: 1000;
      background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.8);
      box-shadow: 0 2px 5px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    }
    
    html.dark .dark-mode-toggle {
      background-color: rgba(30, 30, 30, 0.8);
    }
    
    .dark-mode-toggle:hover {
      background-color: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05);
    }
    
    html.dark .dark-mode-toggle:hover {
      background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.1);
    }
  `;
  document.head.appendChild(style);
  
  // Add button to the page
  document.body.appendChild(toggleButton);
});
```

## 3. Adding Reading Time Estimation

1. For each blog post, calculate reading time manually:
   - Count words in your post (approximately)
   - Divide by 200 (average reading speed)
   - Round up to nearest minute

2. Add reading time to your post's frontmatter or at the beginning of your post:
```
---
title: "Your Post Title"
// ...other frontmatter
---

**Reading time: X min** • Published on [date]
```

## 4. Setting up Giscus Comments

1. Set up Giscus for your repository:
   - Go to https://giscus.app/
   - Enter your repository name (e.g., arnabdey73/blog)
   - Follow the setup instructions
   - Get your repo ID and category ID

2. Add the Giscus script at the end of your blog posts:
```html
<div id="comments">
  <h2>Comments</h2>
  <script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
    data-repo="arnabdey73/blog"
    data-repo-id="YOUR_REPO_ID"
    data-category="General"
    data-category-id="YOUR_CATEGORY_ID"
    data-mapping="pathname"
    data-reactions-enabled="1"
    data-emit-metadata="0"
    data-theme="light"
    data-lang="en"
    crossorigin="anonymous"
    async>
  </script>
</div>
```

## 5. Adding Newsletter Signup

1. Sign up for a newsletter service (Buttondown, Substack, ConvertKit, etc.)
2. Get your signup form embed code
3. Add it to the end of your posts or create a dedicated widget

Example manual HTML to add at the end of posts:
```html
<div class="newsletter-signup">
  <h3>Subscribe to my newsletter</h3>
  <p>Get new posts delivered right to your inbox</p>
  <!-- Replace with your actual newsletter form embed code -->
  <form action="https://your-newsletter-service.com/subscribe" method="post">
    <input type="email" name="email" placeholder="email@example.com" required class="newsletter-input">
    <button type="submit" class="newsletter-button">Subscribe</button>
  </form>
</div>
```

## 6. Adding RSS Feed

Hashnode automatically generates RSS feeds for your blog. Your RSS feed URL is:
```
https://[your-domain].hashnode.dev/rss.xml
```

You can link to this from your blog navigation for readers to easily subscribe.

## 7. SEO Improvements

Hashnode handles most basic SEO automatically, but you can enhance it:

1. For each post, make sure to fill out:
   - SEO title (seoTitle)
   - SEO description (seoDescription)
   - Cover image (cover)
   - OG image (ogImage)
   - Tags (relevant to your content)

2. Make sure your meta description is compelling and between 120-155 characters.

3. Use descriptive, keyword-rich headings (H2, H3) throughout your posts.

## Additional Tips

1. For syntax highlighting, Hashnode already supports it - just use the proper markdown code blocks with language specified:

```javascript
// Your code here
```

2. For better post previews on your homepage, make sure to:
   - Use compelling cover images
   - Write engaging intro paragraphs
   - Keep titles concise but descriptive
